you know how it goes the US debt
continues to expand your currency
continues to devalue and you sit there
and you take it you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you we
don't have to live like this we need to
get serious first with the knowledge of
why this is happening then we need to
understand how this is going to change
and then what we can actually do about
it all here in this video if you could
stand it if you can handle the truth
let's begin first things first you can
see why is growth so strong one factor
has been government spending which grew
at an
unsustainably
4.7% in real terms over the last year
and so we can see that this the one of
the fastest rates in decades it works at
a cross Purpose with monetary policy
objectives they're trying to tighten the
Federal Reserve is saying we want
quantity hit of tightening but it's
going the opposite way the government is
spending so much money so we can agree
upon that right the Federal Reserve
they're tightening what they have to do
they've increased interest rates they
have been reducing the amount that they
keep on their balance sheet okay that's
for sure and they've made it very clear
they want to tighten their monetary
policy but what's happening on the
government side is that they're spending
like never before they've got this
Golden Goose and it keeps laying eggs
that's you the taxpayer and so this is
happening at the same time and they're
basically counteracting each other it's
it's like you know one's banging and
one's going this way and then they're
just fighting against each other and
it's not working why is this a concern
it's very simple if you have too much
debt you need somebody to buy that debt
and doing so will allow you to keep
going further and further into debt as
long as to have a buyer for it you can
do that but what happens when there's
too much debt and there aren't enough
buyers let's explore that
now nobody wants US Treasury bonds now
of course I wouldn't say nobody but it's
coming the time is coming
when there's not enough buyers this is
an extremely frightening scenario not
just just for the US Treasury Market not
just for those
invested not just for the US dollar it's
going to affect even Beyond just the
United States everybody in the world
will have to feel this and I'm going to
explain this once a symbol of America's
economic might and accepted as a global
coin of the realm they have fallen badly
out of favor with serious consequences
for taxpayers investors and financial
markets Elementary economic forces too
much Supply not enough demand have
collided to create the worst stretch of
US government bonds since the Civil War
can you believe that this just happened
literally that just happened the
government keeps borrowing to cover its
budget deficits while once reliable
buyers of that debt both at home and
abroad have pulled back so the the
Federal Reserve is buying that all you
had the domestic consumption you had
foreign buyers all happening at the same
time so the US can get on more debt and
you have to you know you basically get
to to reap the benefits of that but now
things have changed the result investors
are demanding the steepest yields since
2007 auctions of fresh bonds that were
once routine are now going terribly and
bond portfolios are getting absolutely
hammered the longest dated treasury
bonds are in a bare Market worse than
the Doom bust and almost as bad as 2008
so what happens is the country goes in
debt they package all this stuff up they
have these auctions you have all these
different parties that come to the
auction and they say I'll take that I'll
take that I'll take that they buy it all
up usually it's over subscribed meaning
like there was even more demand but now
that's not happening and so that starts
to lead to a crisis because there's a
recognization of that and think about
this you don't have enough buyers let's
say you're offering 5% on that
particular Bond well you'll always have
a buyer but at what price so that's
what's going on here oh we're not going
to do it at 5% we'll do it at 5.1 do I
hear 5.2 do I have 5.3 do I hear a 5.4
you understand the auctions like that
that's kind of the thing that's
happening right now and
so we have a big concern like there's
not enough attention on what's Happening
it it is extremely important we're like
on the cusp of this here grizzly bear
how the bond route Stacks up to past
bare markets and you could see it is
very aggressive there's no question
about that and so it leads me just into
this which essentially highlights the
government borrowing more than expected
increasing the supply of treasuries
dinging their value the FED is selling
down its own Holdings dumping yet more
bonds into a market that doesn't really
want them we have been War like I I know
I have been warning about this for a
long time that nobody wants this garbage
okay and it's a simple matter of fact
mortgage back Securities
especially but you know it's all
temporary because they're going to come
back into the market they're going to
buy it all up and they always buy more
than they did in the previous cycle what
happens as a result of that oh no oh
dear there's just a lot less demand than
there was even six months ago you can
buy a six-month t- bill that's yielding
north of 5% why wouldn't you buy that
instead of a long Bond that's yielding 4
and 3/4 you see what's happening here
the the numbers are all mixed up the
longer
dated you should get better return but
that's not happening right now and
that's why everything's all screwed up
okay and so basically what they're
saying is look they they've got this
spending that's happening from the
government is for one reason or another
they're doing the infrastructure they
doing this and that they're spending too
much money too much money and guess what
you enter a recession what's the very
next thing that
happens what is it the government's got
to spend more they got to do stimulus
checks got to support this oh the car
industry is failing here's some money oh
that industry is failing here we go oh
you want to write off the student debt
here you go that's all fine and dandy if
you've got a buyer for your debt but
that doesn't happen when you're in these
circumstances the Federal Reserve is
going to have to reverse all of their
policies and give it a go they're going
to take gasoline you know that gasoline
you go and fill up your car and you say
oh my God the the price is unbelievable
yeah well that gas imagine you see a big
like tire fire like you just see this
big fire oh my goodness there's a fire
there you know what I I know what I'm
going to do I'm going to pour a whole
bunch of that gasoline that cost me a
arm and a leg I'm going to pour on that
tire fire because that's going to fix
the problem that's going to make the
fire go out right and that's a silly
analogy but that's not really a silly
analogy you know you can call it a
dumpster fire you can call whatever you
want it's a mess and I hope you see the
progression of all these things I have
literally been talking about this since
my let's just say since I have had
documented since January 2012 in my
first book it's unbelievable to see it
unfolding before my very eyes Bill Amman
is literally moving Bond markets on
October 23rd Amman posted that he had
covered a bond short that he took in
2023 the market re like it was the exact
Peak the exact Peak and then of course
he said in q1 2024 the FED is going to
cut rates we will see
but he he predicted that there's no
question right on the money right on the
money coincidence possibly who knows we
don't know what these guys what their MO
is but this is the world we live in
interesting I would say the US dollar is
barreling towards a 3.7% loss this month
against the basket of ma six major
currencies and will be the worst monthly
performance in a year so generally what
happens not in all cases generally what
happens is you have the stock market
working inversely with the US dollar so
remember we had the US dollar
strengthening on and on and on but the
stock market was coming down or at least
it was quite weak now that trend is
reversing gold performing well um but
what I need to note here is it it's it's
not bad you know for somebody who earns
US dollars but doesn't live in the US uh
you know a strong US dollar is quite a
thing it's a nice thing but when it
starts to reverse it's like oh dear you
know but the US dollar still Reigns
Supreme let's be honest but uh just
understand what's happening it's against
a basket of other currencies at the same
time measured against Real Goods let's
be honest they're all losing out and we
lose out falling bond yields helped make
another Fed rate hike likely next month
but expect the quick pivot to Cuts in
2024 that's according to S&P Global I
don't I don't know honestly are they
going to like increase interest rates
and then cut immediately after what do
you think are they just going to that
was the last one that's it it's done all
done you tell me I want to know in the
comments let's let's talk about that and
this is just the the reason I put this
here was the talk about what the end
result of this you got to understand
there's too much debt if if there's a
recession or if there isn't a recession
they're going to spend at least a lot of
money maybe an extremely large amount of
money but you know it's going to be a
lot whether it's for the infrastructure
projects or whatever they're going to
spend more money when they do that they
need to have the buyers of that debt if
they don't have those buyers the Federal
Reserve says whoa hold your horses right
now we were doing a QT now we got to do
at least a backdoor quantitative easing
so the message is very simple let's go
in there let's print that money let's
buy it all up at the end of the day
they're going to create more inflation
that means the prices of everything that
you pay uh are going to be higher than
what they are today knowing that
information if you knew your groceries
if you knew your water your electricity
your cars your everything if you knew
that was going to be more expensive in
the next year what would you do what are
the actions you would take and start to
do that get the pen get the paper out
and start to think about that the next
time you're waiting at the bus stop or
you're sitting in traffic just take a
moment turn the radio off I do this all
the time you turn the the music off
don't don't have those distractions and
just go through and just think of it and
and you know like a workflow like a
chart and go through and think okay if
that happens then what could happen and
then you start to think of all the
different
possibilities and you need to do that
for your own good for your family your
your neighbors the people that are quite
frankly going to rely on you because
What's Happening Here is unlike anything
we've experienced imagine the level of
inflation we got from 2020 into 2022
pretty bad
right well it always gets worse the
actions that they take are always even
greater than the previous instance they
do more they create more
inflation so think about it we're at
least at bare minimum base case what we
experienced from 2020 into 2022 that was
terrible expect that again what if it's
double what if it's triple these things
could happen so plan accordingly take
the actions that you can today I hope
that you will um you know you know share
information you can that you find
valuable with your friends and family
even sometimes if they don't want to
hear it give them just a little tidbit
knowing that maybe they start to
you know come to terms with it but at
least you can have no guilt on your
conscious hey I I tried you know that's
the way it works that's why I make these
videos to help those who are willing to
listen I hope that you will give me a
thumbs up on the way out because it
supports this channel but what you're
doing is basically notifying some people
who might be on The Fringe to say hey
what's this all about I thank you for
that and as always I want to see you
here tomorrow take care